Conference Call - Nov / December 2011
=====================================

Call details
------------

* When: TBC. Doodle Poll -
 * How: Skype, unless numbers grow too large, then either GotoMeeting (if possible) or something else.
 * Who: T3.5 people, select WP4 and WP2 people. Anyone who’s involved.

Agenda
------

Liable to change, except point 1.

1.  Make sure everyone has read the work breakdown - http://dev.webinos.org/redmine/projects/t3-5/wiki/36_Work_Breakdown and the proposed outline of D3.6 - http://dev.webinos.org/redmine/projects/t3-5/wiki/Interim_report
    1.  discuss rational and overview
    2.  is everyone happy with the tasks that exist, and the research/investigatory tasks for the coming few months?
    3.  what’s missing?
    4.  early volunteers for certain research challenges.

2.  Make sure everyone in T3.5 has filled in the effort record at - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0As1cqcmobbEvdGNaTjRRX04zclZqZjhMZ3NqdlhlWEE&hl=en_US#gid=0
3.  Allocate tasks for immediate work
    1.  UML Modelling - Oxford/..?
    2.  Integration of risk analysis / misuse cases into architectural design to create a more rigorous model: Oxford/Polito

4.  WP4 Activities: Overview of current security activities
    1.  Secure storage analysis - aiming to have **something** implemented on Android, preferably generalisable to other platforms, but suggest best practice of using alternative.
    2.  Key storage - Shamal working on a cross-platform key storage API for use in both secure storage and for TLS keys.
    3.  PKI - seems fine, need to progress trust establishment phase. This is in Habib’s backlog
    4.  Policy framework - update from Salvatore/Stefano?
    5.  Permissions generation at install time / first use. Need to make sure this is in someones WP4 backlog.
    6.  Software-based attestation (essentially just process logging and inspection) still TBC. This is going to be relatively untrustworthy, unfortunately.
    7.  Policy management app. John to scope out the approach/requirements, but work needs to be done in WP 5 on some of this. Volunteers needed.
    8.  Securing the WRT-PZP connection. BIG open problem. Main issue is the lack of an identity on the WRT, so very hard to do anything useful. Suggestions?
    9.  Any other activities?


