Minutes-thursday
================

**Session Start: Thu Feb 24 09:02:55 2011**
Welcome to the minutes for Thursday, Feb, 24th
WP3 meeting

Throw User ID management and User Data Management together
Proposal: make these one group
Nobody disagrees.
Device discovery and service discovery groups merge?
Proposal by George G: Context should be put together with data management
Katrin: Thinking about it… where does data come from, what happens to it. Does it make sense to combine? Further discussion on this
Christian: pressed for time. Need to decide now.
Aim to keep groups as simple and small as possible.
Nick: Context management all encompassing. Need to iterate through types of context. Obvious questions: do you access it through API, is it declarative? Accessed through policy? Need to start thinking about potential data points, extensibility, mechanisms via which an application or infreastructure can change behaviour on the basis of context. Suspect that context will be part of every…
…section.
George: Want to avoid talking to **all** groups.
Nick: Try to look at all flows through the architecture
Christian: Many interfaces with all the groups. So perhaps Context is not possible to align with any one other group.
No disagreement. Device application and service discovery should be one group.
Privileged applications + web application handling. Both quite small: keep them seperate ?
Comment: more inputs for Privileged application management would be better
Nick: keep it separate.
Nick: there are 3 or 4 different architectures, so need to stay separate
… general agreement …
Analytics and context separate groups.
Analytics as a working group
Privacy,Rights,Security removed as a group in 3.1
Browser plugin / extension handling stays separate
Cloud services is quite weak. Put in adaptation? But might be cloud or local. Device adaptation stays separate.
Should we split cloud services into sub topics?
… no comments …
Overlay network model stays as it is.
22 partners, 11 groups…
aim to keep the main work with a small group of people to simplify decision making.

Need two company names per point
Plus companies who are willing to be involved "in the loop" but not doing the main body of work
Suggestion from Dave R: Have editors and then contributors
Editor responsible for doing the main work, contributor makes suggestion
Christian: avoid having an editor who is not doing the real work
All editors should be strong contributors
Nick: all about setting expectations. We just need to say the role of the editor. Editor must drive thing forward.

User ID & Data management. Primary: Impleo Secondary: W3C, DTAG, DOCOMO, Polito
Context MGMT. Primary: NTUA. Secondary: IBBT, Ambiesense
Policy: Primary: TIS, UNICT. Secondary: Oxford
Does Policy MGMT also involve definition?
Yes
Discovery App/Services: Primary: Samsung. Secondary: Impleo, W3C, SEMC, ISMB
Web app handling: Primary: FOKUS, Secondary: Impleo, W3C
Privileged Applications: Primary: TUM, BMW Secondary: Oxford, Polito, Impleo
Analytics. Primary: Secondary: VisionMobile, Ambiesense ???

Nick: … alternative suggestion: do an ecosystem analysis of the area, along with the privacy?
Ayse: Analytics discussed under privacy/security umbrella.
Nick: Analytics is a problem. someone needs to sit down and propose an architectural model. Default position: plenty on the web already exists, how does it fit in?
Ayse: We don’t have the number of man months on it to lead.
Volantis are also secondary
Does it make sense to have an analytics infrastructure? What kind of analytics data should Webinos collect? What would be useful interchange tagging format? Something not adhoc would be valuable.
Nick: There is plenty in this space.
Nick: if we don’t have anyone who can put time behind this, we wont be able to keep up
George V: No cross-platform analytic infrastructure here. Issues on how you design on the client.
Ayse: Room for innovation. Messy, though. Scoping out of it needs to be separate to implementation/specification.
Ayse: strong connections to context too.
Ayse: We can’t be the only people contributing. Implication for security and privacy.
Security and Privacy needs to be keeping tabs on this.
Christian: someone needs to step up!
Talk to advisory board, get a third party involved in the Analytics?
Lots of expertise there.
Deadline: give people a week to volunteer to lead it.
March 10th deadline to resolve this.
Action: Resolve by 10th march
Event Handling area. Primary: ISMB. Secondary: Samsung, W3C, TNO
Browser plugins / extensions: Primary: BMW, Secondary: TUM, Samsung
Didn’t we conclude yesterday that cloud services should be split completely? Not sure.
Comment: covered in all other areas, should remove cloud services.
Comment: what is cloud services? Nobody seems sure…
… nobody seems sure …
Nick; distinction betweek cloud and local service will become blurred if we do our job correctly, so the area might not exist.
Dave R: Relationship between device and servers / associations work . Volunteer to take on.
Discussion on content adaptation / application adaptation
Dave R: The notion that applications are managed across devices / servers. "Personal Space"
We don’t have a good name for installing applications on server and device… shared…
Sub activity of the web applications group?
Comment (Hans): "Cloudlets" mentioned in the DoW. Cloudlets needs to be addressed.
… something running on a device and connecting to a cloud.
Nick: sure we can find something we can call Cloudlets
Dave proposal: merge cloud stuff with web applications area
… involves issues in licensing and sharing.
is Heiko happy to merge the groups "Cloud services" and "web applications"?
Heiko: rather do content adaptation
Device, Application discovery: TNO added as primary
Cloud area has been killed.
Cloud services merged with web apps area
Comment; is user interface adaptation also covered in content adaptation?
Is it just about adapting media streams?
Nick: Transcoding not the primary activity
Heiko: we also see this as adaptation of layout
Agreement: "Content Adaptation" needs to change to include user experience adaptation
Dave R: Propose to change to "Context adaptation".
Changed to "Context Adaptation". Agreed by Heiko
Difference between contect adaption and management?
Ayse agrees these are conceptually different areas. Mgmt is different to adaptation.
The two groups must be communicating but they are different.
Context Adaptation: Primary: IBBT, W3C Secondary: Ambiesense
"Context more interesting than content". Comment is it content adaptation via context? No, it is changing the experience wrt context
Changed to "Context driven adaptation"
Additional secondary: Volantis, NTUA
Overlay network. Primary: W3C, Secondary: Impleo, Samsung.
Polito added as a secondary to Policy Mgmt
Volantis added as a secondary to Web App Handling
TIS added as a secondary to Web App Handling
Earlier comment: Telefonica not present
Next step: go through the DoW to see who’s contributing versus promising.
Comment from UWE: Resources for different areas in 3.1. Relation with 3.2? No clear separation was the earlier conclusion.
Should the responsibility for creating APIs be in these areas?
Nick: 2 issues. Who is the company actually implementing? Other: accountability of effort.
Nick: NEed to create two sets of APIs. Legacy APIs and then creating new APIs. Need to achieve both.
Nick: who does what is a subject domain problem.
Plenty of work for 3.2 to do "massaging" the existing APIs
Only 20 man months in 3.2, huge amount of work
3.2 mainly about legacy APIs for now?
Christian: Prefer few partners on each section. Know who to talk to.
Nick: understand a desire to silo where possible. Important to keep an audit trail on conversations and threads to make sure we see why decisions are made.
… so need to make sure all conversations are not just on private threads.
… what mechanism should they use to do audit?
1: create micromailinglists
2: use redmine forums
need to stick to one.
Forums more useful?
Proposal: use forums for the groups
No strong objection
Strongly supported!
John proposes that each wiki page has a "security issues page" and a "who" at the top for who is responsibile
Still concern (Uwe) on resources for 3.2
Nick: Once we have more concrete deliverables, we’ll know about time.

Concerns about coordination are cropping up. Face-to-face in the beginning of May. Should it be a WP3 meeting?
Strong agreement
2nd May
… coffee break …
Session Close: Thu Feb 24 10:43:42 2011

Session Start: Thu Feb 24 10:43:42 2011
Session Ident: #webinos

Session Close: Thu Feb 24 10:43:42 2011

Session Start: Thu Feb 24 11:51:59 2011
Session Ident: #webinos

Discussion: how good is the wiki for generating reports?
Plan to study requirements and then standards landscape
Identify what we need to cover
Already discussed widget specs
Need to get partners to engage with working groups of standards bodies
No point trying to do standards at the end of the project
Are all partners in WP8 signed up for Redmine? PResentation on BSCW
Propose to use an online poll to determine who is interested in each topic
Clear committment is needed.
Online poll planned for next week.
Find out which areas are undermanned,
Find out from the results of the poll which areas are undermanned, which are less relevent
which we forgot about
and which we can drop.
Invite editors to give perspective
Where do standards suffice?
——
Nick: Exploitation work.
8.2: Exploitation. Deliverable due on Monday
IN relatively good shape on this
Two parts: Joined exploitation plan
2 parts: joint exploitation plan as a collective. 22 subsections for individual plans
Live document, reported at 6, 12 ,24, month 30
Should not be updated just at this time
Update regularly
Exploitation is not covering the effort of exploitation itself.
The man hours allocated to exploitation are not supposed to cover your time and effort actually exploiting itself but management and reporting effort
It is supposed to cover the management and coordination of
exploitation efforts that should/will happen anyway.
For example: Partner wants to put webinos in all their devices. However, this can’t be charged to the EU.
Same is true for standardisation.

George V: Examples requested
GeorgeV: Please give exploitation examples.
Nick: Will follow later.
Primary asset that will be exploited are the results of WP4 and WP5.1
Open Source assets from 4 are free. Some apps from 5 may not be free.
We need to think of activities which are not just a means to an end, but valuable in themselves
Everything that is not just a means to an end but a result should
probably be an asset and possibly exploitable.
"We are our first customers"
Test question: Is it useful or just meand to an end?
A test: is this valuable for us? Is it useful? If not, then we may need to reevaluate
Non-software explotable assets are: Landscape analysis, Requirements
and Community.
W3C has already said that the requirements may be immediately useful

3 non-software sploitable deliveries: landscape analysis, requirements, as well as the collective experience and community we are building
We should also better exploit the collected expertize (sp?) in this project.
Primary exploitation, however will be software.
s/however/however,/
Email Nick by Friday
Legal agreements need to be available before real exploitation can take place.
Comments on own sections and overall exploitation section
Email with contact detail of company "Exploitation Representative"
Nick wants contact details for someone in "Marketing" at each company
per company to Friday - preferable PR related person.
Action: email Nick with contact details of the company PR person
Exploitation manager from big name company would be a good thing,
but admittedly unlikely.
Planning resources: everyone probably needs a week allocated in the DoW to keep up to date on exploitation plan
Exploitation mainly will involve communication with marketing,
Sys Admin, tools development, are chargable
internal members exploitation is not relevant.
Lots of time has been expended on the consortium agreement. Legal expertise always required
Work by marketing appartment to exploit webinos is chargeable.
Comment from hans: may be an issue to put a marketing manager on the cost claims. Do not write "Marketing" on any cost claims
Hans: Might be difficult accounting-wise with the EU.
Replies: detail of doing so, rules, need clarifying
Care shoould be taken with putting ‘marketing people’ on
—— Dave R: Standardisation Results So Far
webinos ‘payroll’, problems are usually avoidable by renaming.

Question: not sure what the best way of not ignoring what has already been done in reports when it comes to standardising in 8.1
Reply (Nick): We haven’t done anything particularly relevent yet. We need to hone in on the important, relevant sections.
At the moment, we need to make everyone aware of what we are doing
Ayse: people need to skim through the deliverables to find out what we need to be paying attention to, what is relevent.
Standardization effort: have looked at the 1st tier standards development organisations
IETF recently added
Standards organisation will be split in two tiers, based on relevance to webinos.
Still looking for names of other partners to get involved
2nd tier standards bodies
Open issues are OMA and WAC.
Will be queried in poll next week.
Email/poll will be sent out to identify who will be the partner responsible for being aware of what is going on in standards bodies
WAC: TIS will be point of contact
George V: We have promised in the DoW to do some tracking
GeorgeV: Dow claims we will have standards tracking.
Need to put that in place.

Presumably webinos will be thinking about IRIs? But we don’t need to spend too much effort on the unicode consortium, for example.

Risk of webinos re-inventing the wheel
Question about IPR. What about developing work in Webinos and then publishing to standardization body can be a problem.
Messy problem. Potential blocking point for contributing to a standards body.
Reality: if we are to contribute to any standards body, every collaborator on that activitiy will need to sign up to the IPR agreement of the body
Attention point: need to address IPR issues.
Even if individual companies submit input to standards bodies, it
does not matter if it is known that it is webinos derived work.
Timelines of standards body may be an issue.
Nick: We should package webinos as an OpenSource initiative
Nick: Correct strategy is to continue with open source development. Don’t brand WP3 as a standard yet. Bring work to W3C / other bodies and **then** talk about standards?
and less so as a standards initiative.

Need to find a way to handle submission from webinos as a whole.
Need to handle how we manage submissions of webinos work to standards bodies in general. May need legal input
Wiki page: W3C activities relevant to webinos
Large slew of relevant specs. Need to see where the weak points are, what we need to do to improve. Derive a plan.
Track specifications
Nothing on analytics in W3C

Policy work in DAP working group has been hived-off. Lots of work on Personal Information Management.
P2P APIs
Need to work on weak spots
Weak stops: security, identity, auth,
*Stops = points
Weak points: market places, 3rd party components, conformance

Are open source organisations discussed? Answer: not yet.
How do Open Source organisations fit into Standards bodies?
If I want to influence HTML5, I’d probably go to webkit first and
DoW mentions that we interact with Open Source organisations.
only then to W3C. (Nick)
Are we thinking of a chapter / section of the report of how we engage with open source bodies. Maybe even saying that we _dont_ engage with them
Technically one of the biggest challenges is finding interaction points
How do we effectively collaborate with communities in WebKit, etc?
We currently lack a deliverable structure document
Draft schedule for discussion.
March 7: HTML 5
Schedule of various standards draft - just for the next two months.
May 30: Secure Web Applications
June 20: Identity, Auth and Privacy
(selective minuting, apologies)
June 27: first draft of D8.1
Suggestion: W3C DAP group should get good coverage early on.
Need volunteers to investigate and do a summary of these groups
Specific point - who will be at next meeting in March (from webinos)
Need to get project participation in these groups, preferrably more than one person. Each partner has objectives.
Put in the report the people in the consortium who are already members of W3C working groups
Action
Action: the 8.1 report should include an overview of which project members are involved in the different W3C project working groups. Possibly other groups as well? (Suggestion by Nick)
Get project partners to sign up, write details on the wiki.
Questionnaire next week
Feedback from partners. Is this a good way of working? No objections
webinos time table
- sorry, missed the actual 8.1 dates -
Where next? Workshops soon on Web and Automotvie, Identity in the browser.
(Some 8.1 dates mentioned earlier)
Relevant for webinos: Possible Identity in the Browser workshop
Question (George V): How do you influence standards?
As we identify areas where changes or new standards are required, we should attend workshops, present position papers, propose new changes.
We should be influencing in early stages.
Workshop are an early opportunity to promote and consider standards suggestions.
^^ influencing standards, that is.
Month 24 report should contained a more detailed gap analysis of what’s missing.
How do we reach out to the external partners and help us with this work?
Comment: does this depend on the consortium agreement?
Contribution of code requires the consortium agreement, but there may be useful boilerplate available for discussion / contributions
May have missed some of this: End of year meeting about which standards organisations to get involved with.
comment from Stephan (inaudible!)
Whole series of questions on _how_ we go about doing this work.
Return at 1:$5

*1:45

**WP5 developments of webinos application**
Presentation by Hans and Ayse
212 PM in WP5
WP has not started yet.
17 partners, 18% of project resources

Value of webinos: allow everyone to make and use webinos enabled applications
Attract developers
Have impact!

To do that, we need to provide easier access to market.
Gain for developers:
Cross device convergence.
Access to cloud.
Context awareness.
Access to (non-GPL) Open Source code.
W5 objective to builf application to evaluate, but also as showcase.
The applications are our exhibits to the public.
Will also be the test for what was created in WP5.
And will be a mean to provide constructive feedback to WP4 for phase II.
Tricky since in the first phase (using a car metaphor) there might not
even be an engine available. Still, making sure that the doors don’t fall off
is valuable. And when we get the engine in phase II, we’ll test the
whole car. - end of example -
D5.1 defines applications in M12; D5.2 are these applications - not much time.
(D5.2 due in month 18)
Need to work in parallel.
Early establishing of developer teams.
Partners are free to form teams (in-house and cross-partners)
Monthly planing and to-dos.
Task leaders and editors: Samsung, Volantis, TNO

Dependencies:
Close coupling with WP6 (Demos)
Everyone evalutes their own applications, but should also be able to
execute any co-partnered applications.
All applications should be made available to the public (at least as a default)
WP4: Runtime environment (‘the engine’) only expected in second half.
WP7 will disseminate info about applications, WP8 will provide (mini) business
plan for application.
s/will/should/
Risks
D5.1 deadline on Sept, 1st. - many people are on holiday.
Reviewers will also want to see early demos.
Formally not in time range of first year, but realistically they should
exist at review time.
AP: Take into account 2.1, 2.2, 2.7, 3.1, 3.2 for D5.1
It should be clearly visible/stated what applications test what components.
Ayse will present ‘master plan’ now.
Consider system architecture (WP3)
Consider scenarios/use cases/personas/requirements (WP2)
Create paths between WP2 and WP3.
Need of coordinated suite of applications, not a bunch of things
that do stuff.
Alan: Do we try to showcase all scenarios from WP2, some large showcase apps
or small apps highlighting individual features.
Answer on next slide:
Focus on stakeholders view. (As opposed to creative exercises).
Move beyond state of the art / have commonly expected features
If you have an idea of an app at some point, write it down immediatly,
much better than starting from blank in a brainstorming part.
During the summer the master plan will be fleshed out further.
Back to Hans:
We would like each application to be innovative.
Concepts to address:
Converged applications
Security and policies handling
Analytics coverage
Context aware apps / social proximity
Market place for our applications, demonstarte application life cycle handling.
Implementation platforms:
Mobile will probably need Bluetooth, active NFC, camera, WiFi, location, accelerator, compass.
In car: Bluetooth and WiFi
Home Media / PC: Bluetooth and WiFi
"Let us get our applications out there!"
Suitable subset of WP5 slides might be presented at review.
However project officer asked specifically for only active WPs.
**WP 6 presentation follows**

George Gionis
Question still relating to WP5: Time between platform implementation start and
application development is very short. Might this cause problems?
Answer: Probably. We need to address it somehow, but most solutions seem
to be undesireable.
For 5.1 it makes sense to start things as fast as possible.
This might even be beneficial for WP3 since it helps to focus and
prioritize issues.
Nick: WP4 demo tomorrow might also help to clarify things.
On to WP6 - demos.
Two phases, three deliverables each.
Demo events (at conferences or creating own events)
Steps:
Story board

Setup infrastructures
Setup/join event and do Demo
Collect feedback
Have fallback scenario (video, ppr, poster)
Consider "Competition" style events
s/ppr/ppt/
Evaluation methology needs to be aligned with WP4.
Also need anytime/online/user-driven demo
A "webinos something" online or downloaded to create a directly
useable "webinos experience".
Alan: This might expose us to the risk of damaging "brand value" due to
putting incomplete/partial stuff out there.
WP 6 only starts in M15, so we won’t have any demo in first half of the project.
Number of timing issues which we probably need to correct in next ammendmend.
Too much effort in short time, not enough time to demo demos before their
evaluation, D6.4 needs to be delivered befor demo phase II started.
Will attempt to address in PMB tomorrow.
Other problems:
Difficult to manage since tasks/deliverables are not connected and
demos/tasks are not connected.

Stephan: Could be handled as sub-task planning.
Next full meeting will have detailed plan in any case.
Coffee break
**Next session - WP7 continuation**

Create a custom issue in Redmine for capturing information/activities
(on suggestion by Nick)
Custom issues can contain structured data
Need an email receiver for these custom issues
Agreement: use Redmine to track information/activities
Action: set up a separate issue thread in Redmine to capture WP7 issues
Comment (Christian): This information needs to stay editable
Reminder: Is the right person on the WP7 mailing list? Need a PR contact for each company
Please report all activities
Peer-reviewed Articles
1.5 articles per academic partner per year
Comment: joint publications
non-academic partners highlight key innovations for academic partners to take advantage of in publication
Oxford responsible for making sure publications happen in 2.7, 3.5…
Suggestion to list the areas in which we plan to publish rather than the specific venues (maybe a set of venues)
Polito 2.7, 3.1
NTUA: 3.1 on context awareness
FH: 3.1-3, 4.x
TNO: 3.1
Ambiesense: collaboration
UNICT 3.1
TUM: Automotive area - 3.x
Polito: 3.1, 3.5, 2.7, 2.8…
Oxford *2.8
Industry articles and blog posts. 1 per month.

Don’t put whitepapers on the same level as blogs

blogs are perhaps more unstructured and are used to create community. Different definitions of what a blog post consists of: are they small, or large?
Decided to have two blogs: unmoderated and high quality
Nick suggestion: every member to have photos, bios, published
Key idea: avoid the noise on the web. Santize the "official" Webinos communications. Also reference interesting ideas, issues, blog posts
So far, little interest in blogging

Hans: would like a how-to guideline for the blogging
Partners involved in blogging, will blog in the next 3 months: Vision Mobile, FH (Stephan), Nick (Impleo), Futuretext (Ajit - nominated)
Request for accounts for all members of the project (all people working on it)
Integration with LDAP / Redmine?
Action for George V: Accounts
Request: Initial guidelines for blogging, then just let people loose.
Request: blogs should not be moderated
(discussion!)
George G: take charge of blogging aspect?
Bloggers: Matthias (TNO)
Disclaimer on top of blog posts
Blog entries about conference participation
Nick to produce a white paper in March
John to write a blog post - a "meet us there" and a "summary" blog post
… about the OSS Watch event
Organising a webinos workshop
ServiceWave 2011 is an option
Polito action: ServiceWave 2011 follow up
26th-28th October
… in Posnan
*Poznan, Poland

Mosquito event in June. W3C event.

Newsletter: VisionMobile to identify topics, editor
… task owners to provide content
Conference calendar. Updated bimonthly
Conference calendar is on the website
Suggest that a webinos gmail account and conference calendar is created
Web conferences? No specific plans. 1 per year?
Fact sheets

Consider doing web conferences at the same time as the actual webinos conferences
please send the PR representative contact details
7.3…..
Individual responsible for press releases?
Media coverage follows press releases
Next big event in September.
Subscription to clipping services - check with FH

Ajit (Futuretext) to raise awareness in EU parliament

Fact sheet: we have a version, needs to be updated. Nobody seems to have the bandwidth to do it.
Fact sheet needs to be changed: still says WAX, should become more user friendly
This needs to be done before the review meeting

Action: Update fact sheet before the review. Responsible: Samsung (Alan)
Forum: Internal news letter could easily be "the" news letter
Some suggestions of a separate news letter. GeorgeV: doesn’t seem necessary as yet.
Comment: internal newsletter is a "nice to have" but not urgent. Postponed
Forum (really, this time): wrong form of communication at this stage of the project
Forums for support or vibrant communication, this isn’t happening yet.
Public deliverables section needed
Suggestion: Deliverable needs to have some metadata stored about it.
(Earlier suggestion to kill the forum)
Suggest: Downloads link on the website. Each deliverable up there, with brief description, download button, possibly even the first few lines of the abstract. Also have a blog post.
Blog post for each deliverable
George G to organise partner presentations / internal community activity
Suggestion: email people asking for comments about the blog
All partners follow all channels* George G to collect profiles by email (deadline end of next week)
Action for George G for this.
Strategy for social media: currently just a reminder that webinos is active
Zero-in on Facebook, Flickr, Twitter, Slideshare
Have a strategy document?
When we publicise deliverables, the best way will be through social media*publicize
Proposal by George G: Need to put together a wikipedia page
Does anyone else want to be actively involved in the in/out comms (mailing list to outside world)
No comments
Educational material / Marketing material: needs ownership. Needs review every 3 months or so. Katrin (DT) to follow up
Presentations: needs ownership. Review every 3 months.
Alan B: May be internal presentations to use
… get any santized versions of power point presentations
Katrin to lead Presentation activities
Sync with other activity leaders

**Session Close: Thu Feb 24 18:20:19 2011**

