Policy Management Meeting 15th March 2011
=========================================

Attendees:
----------

* Salvatore
 * Andrea
 * John

Topics of discussion:
---------------------

* Salvatoreâ€™s policy architecture. We went through and discussed the "proposed architecture":http://dev.webinos.org/redmine/attachments/download/428/policy_management__architecture.odp . Comments:

* PAP and PDP split into two sections: one local and one remote. The local PAP will cache policies and have policies referring to local resources. The remote PAP and PDP will be synchronised by the Webinos Agent.
 * Addressing other devices will be done through the overlay network - need to get more feedback on this. Special requirements for policy messages? E.g. accountability and identity requirements?
 * Negotiation of credentials is an open question. Suggestion to look at: "PERMIS":http://sec.cs.kent.ac.uk/download/ModularPermisConcPracExpRevised.pdf , "PrimeLife extensions to XACML":http://spdp.dti.unimi.it/papers/wisg09-ADPPS.pdf and "Access Negotiation within XACML":http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.118.7718&rep=rep1&type=pdf
 * Need to define which policies are synchronised.
 * Revocation will need some more thought - how to revoke a policy on an infrequently online device?
 * Will be turned into PlantUML at some stage

* Effort allocation

* John busy for the rest of this week, but to add PM allocations to the wiki.
 * Public holiday in Italy later this week
 * Not sure about effort from Stefano

* Agenda for WP3 meeting (to be sent by John)

* Time/effort allocation
 * Current progress and activities
 * Need for feedback on current architecture
 * Planned activities: John to look at synchronisation, Salvatore to look at policy use cases / tasks.

Actions
-------

* John to look into policy synchronisation
 * John to add expected effort allocation to the wiki
 * John to email Nick with details for the conference call.
 * Salvatore to look at a concrete example of using the proposed policy in a use case.
 * Salvatore (?) to get feedback from others on proposed architecture? (TBC)

