WP3 Minutes 23-MAR-11
=====================

https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/500545758

Australien: +61 (0) 3 9008 6827
Belgien: +32 (0) 28 08 4295
Deutschland: +49 (0) 898 7806 6469
DÃ¤nemark: +45 (0) 69 91 88 67
Finnland: +358 (0) 942 41 5783
Frankreich: +33 (0) 182 880 461
Irland: +353 (0) 14 845 981
Italien: +39 0 553 98 95 68
Kanada: +1 (647) 724-3553
Neuseeland: +64 (0) 9 984 9498
Niederlande: +31 (0) 708 912 516
Norwegen: +47 (0) 21 04 29 11
Schweden: +46 (0) 852 503 472
Schweiz: +41 (0) 225 3314 53
Spanien: +34 955 32 0871
Vereinigte Staaten: +1 (484) 589-1020
Vereinigtes KÃ¶nigreich: +44 (0) 121 368 0268
Ã–sterreich: +43 (0) 7 2088 1405

Attendees
---------

1.  Christian Fuhrhop (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
2.  Claes Nilsson (SEMCA)
3.  Ziran Sun (Samsung)
4.  Habib Virji (Samsung)
5.  Katerina Touriki (NTUA)
6.  Christian Schaefer (DOCOMO)
7.  Stefano Vercelli (Telecom Italia)
8.  Katrin Jordan (DTAG)
9.  Ronny GrÃ¤fe (DTAG)
10. Sven Lachmund (DOCOMO)
11. Krishna Bangalore (TUM)
12. Heiko Desruelle (IBBT)
13. Radoslaw Maruszewski (Volantis)
14. Dieter Blomme (IBBT)
15. George Voulgaris (VisionMobile)
16. Salvatore Monteleone (UNICT)
17. Simon Isenberg (BMW)
18. Marco Stefano (ISMB)

Agenda
======

{{toc}}

Next WP3 Meeting
================

SEMCA can not host the meeting at the beginning of May.
We need to look for alternatives. This will take place offline.

Most likely options:
a) Hold the meeting again at Docomo.
Restrictions: Meeting needs to start on the 3rd instead of the 2nd since the meeting room is already booked for the 2nd. Not more than 50 participants.
b) Hold the meeting at Fraunhofer FOKUS.

It was noted that May, 2nd is a holiday in the UK, so having the meeting start on the 3rd would make it easier for UK participants.

Length of the meeting: We will need at least two full days of usable meeting time, preferably a bit more. Best idea is probably to go for three days, starting early on day one (so that most people would need to arrive the preceding evening) and then finish around noon on day there, allowing everyone to fly home the same day.

March effort WP3
================

Everyone should report their (estimated) spent effort for the WP3 work areas in March by the end of the week (preferably using redmine functionality, but alternatively via e-mail). The purpose of this is to have an overview on whether any work areas have too limited resources and also to be able to respond competently to possible questions about current resource spending during the review.

Deadline: Monday, March, 28th.

Reports
=======

User ID / User data handling
----------------------------

A phone call concerning this topic was held on Monday, 21st.
Three main topics are currently handled:
# An initial architecture was drafted, a more detailed version will be made this week.
# Cooperation with related work areas was established
# A deeper investigation into the state of the art at what needs to be covered in addition was made.

Currently the work is centered mainly around user ID management with some shortage on user data management.
Originally ID and data management where two separate areas which were joined in the Turin meeting, but
both work areas haven’t properly integrated yet.
DTAG will probably become more active in this area and cover user data aspects, discussion between Sven and Katrin will be held offline in the next days.

Policy
------

Current work on fulfilling requirements, mechanisms for privacy negotiation and policy interaction with other application.
Will be covered in detail in separate 3.5 PhC on Friday, 25th..

Discovery
---------

A phone meeting was held yesterday (March, 22nd). The current work plan can be found on the Wiki. Building of a high level architecture is going on, also the gap analysis in relation to existing standard, mostly in regard to functional APIs.

Web App
-------

Extensions to W3C widget packaging and widget API continue to be added to Wiki. Additional work on description of required runtime behaviour/functionality.

Privileged Apps
---------------

Area turns out to be close to task 3.5 activities, close collaboration/sync needed, will however remain part of task 3.1. - Intial thoughts and concepts on Wiki.

Analytics
---------

Still no takers for analytics area. Future of this area will be discussed by Hans/Nick/George in an offline call as soon as possible.

Event Handling
--------------

The draft architecture is rolled out, looking currently mainly at XMPP as the base standard. Currently there are some resource issues, since only ISMB is active in this area, but this seems only temporary for March. Dave Raggett will contribute from April on, with Samsung and TNO likely to contribute as well.

Browser Extensions
------------------

Currently there are three basic choices in the running: NaCl, NPAPI and the use of local servers. A basic architecture exists, but the primary options are still being evaluated.

Context
-------

The two areas "Context driven adaptation" and "Context Management" have essentially joined to form the new area "Context awareness and adaptation". A meeting on that has been held last Monday (21st) between Anders Isberg, Heiko Desruelle, Hans Myrhaug and George (Gionis, I assume).

Overlay Network
---------------

Has been skipped due to Dave being traveling and not in the PhC.

3.2 update
----------

No 3.2 specific topics in the PhC since there will be a 3.2 specific call on Thursday (24th).

3.5 update
----------

No 3.5 specific topics in the PhC since there will be a 3.5 specific call on Friday (25th).

AOB
---

none

Remark: GotoMeeting seems to be a significant improvement over Powwownow. Some minor audio issues for specific speakers, but far from the often very distorted and echo-y quality we had in earlier calls.

