Minutes WP3 25-May-2011
=======================

{{TOC}}

Attendees
---------

Attendees:
* Christian Fuhrhop (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
* Stephan Steglich (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
* Andre Paul (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
* Marco Gavelli (ISMB)
* Stefano Dâ€™Angelo (ISMB)
* Andrea Atzeni (POLITO)
* Simon Isenberg (BMW F+T)
* Salvatore Monteleone (UniCT)
* Krishna Bangalore (TUM)
* Heiko Desruelle (IBBT)
* John Lyle (Oxford)
* Christian Schaefer (DOCOMO)
* Habib Virji (Samsung)
* George Gionis (NTUA)
* Sven Lachmund (DOCOMO)
* George Voulgaris (VisionMobile)
* Grzegorz Szerlomski (Antenna Volantis)
* Ziran Sun (Samsung)

Status Reports
--------------

Deliverables (3.1, 3.2 and 3.5) content by next week.

Action: written deliverables by next week

### User ID and Data Management

WP 3 meeting yesterday lot of written inputs in the next days in PZH and PZP
Need to agree on the architecture
Editing will you done by the next week
Authentication will be brought to the paper. Some details to be sorted out.
Will do the better ways

### Privileged Apps:

Status: data will written by the next week.

### Content Adaptation:

George will contribute on the arhitecture about Analytics
George will be the person the contact

### Overlays Network:

Status: need to check in mails. Dave is on vacation at the moment.

### Browser Plugin:

Done the Proposal and Recommendations to use the technology for Browser and Plugin
Status report link is posted in the wiki
NPAPI to be done, concerns: its not remote usable
some stuff to be built around good way to be done with NPAPI
Christian: coordinate with Andre - Simon will do that

### Web Applications

Andre:
Edit will the content preliminary deliverable. Decriptions are been made clear.
no feedback to package or deploy. will discuss in the review stage.
plan to write about the application and packaging
recommendation to extend the W3C. technical side there is no need to use W3C
update some parts. could be done by Event API.

### Analytics

Status and Deliverables:
Discussed in the conf call: two side in the Analytics
1.) Provide Basic Landscape details and to extend it
2.) Basically identify in the content adapt, to use seperate packets
both in progress, still skeptical about how much work can be done to talk with Hans and Christian. whether this can be done in the timeframe or not??.
for the deliverable a week is left

### Discovery

Working on the specification, background, state of the art
TNO is working on XMPP side.
to write it down for the deliverable
discussion is on going on format specification part

### Context Awareness:

work on the specifications and adaption part
concerns like how we can integrate Analytics part.
on defining it: In privacy there is no permission defined properly need to discuss on it
Christian: will there be time to fill out the specs
George: will be a close call. need to like into what kind of data to be added to have conf call on friday. Heiko: areas like Notifications area to be looked in

### Event handling

Writing the specs and the specs is almost done. things to be done in the France meeting.
issues: UML diagrams and some specifics protocols, caching, privacy issues

### Policy Management

Critical open issues: current the focus is on Architecture.
Producing the Examples, working on Privilege Apps
Update applications and synchronisation with 3.5 Security Framework
and the deliverable by next week
There is a draft part in the architecture which was discussed in the Berlin meeting and will extend it
lots of work will be done in 3.5 Security Framework
The entry deliverable should have Architecture details. structuring of the deliverables

Open decisions?
---------------

Christian: Are there decisions to be done? Any decisions/communications pending?

Wiki HTML view
--------------

HTML export for 3.1 wiki page is not available for some (no problem with the wiki page for 3.2 ??), to check the 3.1 wiki pages
will check the issues about the Redmine.
_Has been resolved since_

3.5 Security Framework Work:
----------------------------

Security Policy. deadline is same as of the 3.1
to make a round call know.
topics are assigned now.
Andrea started working on Background work
two areas to Impleo
krishna: Privilege Apps
Unict: work on security and Policy
Dave: on holiday to reassign his work
Working on the Identity management synchronisation.

Coming soon
-----------

Next week will be the deadline for deliverable writing, to prepare for Sophia Antipolis and check for the Status Report Updates.

