Minutes WP3 01-June-2011
========================

{{TOC}}

Attendees
---------

Attendees:
* Christian Fuhrhop (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
* Andre Paul (Fraunhofer FOKUS)
* Krishna Bangalore (TUM)
* Ronny Graefe (DTAG)
* John Lyle (Oxford)
* Marco Gavelli (ISMB)
* Heiko Desruelle (IBBT)
* George Voulgaris (VisionMobile)
* George Gionis (NTUA)
* Sven Lachmund (DOCOMO)
* Simon Isenberg (BMW F+T)
* Andrea Atzeni (POLITO)
* Habib Virji (Samsung)
* Claes Nilsson (SEMCA)
* Matthias Faeth (TNO)

Deliverable Status
------------------

The phone conference was dedicated to assess the current status of the deliverable and plan for the Sophia Antipolis meeting next week.

### Analytics (George V)

Not sufficient resources to have anything available yet.

Gap analysis has been performed. Some content will be in the Wiki by tomorrow (June, 2nd).

Analytics will need some sort of breakout session with (at least) the Context group.

### Security (John)

Currently no content in 3.1 deliverable, but a large amount of the security part will be based on (copied/digested) work done in WP 3.5, so the 3.1 text will be available fairly quickly after 3.5. Should be done by the end of this week (June, 9th).

Part of the Security chapter will also be privileged applications. Coordination between Security/Policy and Privileged Apps exists, but a short communication session in Sophia Antipolis will be useful.

### Context (Heiko)

Description of components needs to be refined.

### Messaging / Events

Needs to be better integrated with Overlay Network.

### Discovery (Habib)

Information is partly (mostly?) available in referenced Wiki pages, needs to be added into main deliverable body.

### Authentication (Sven)

Available and mostly complete in Scen’s head, needs to be put down in writing.

### Foundations/Extensions (Andre)

Mostly covered.

### Overlay Network

Not covered in phone conference due to Dave’s absence. Text in deliverable looks good, though.

Next week
---------

Basic plan for the 3.1 sessions:

Need specific work/discussion/alignment groups for Analytics/Context (though preferable for all)

Need Security / Foundation session

Authentication depends on what is written down by next week.

Discovery / Messaging can already cross-review

Security / Overlay Network can already cross-review

Everyone that can be spared can already review Background / Intro chapters’

Common writing session on Friday.

AOB
---

none

