D3.5 Retrospective / Post Mortem
================================

As we have just finished the D3.5 deliverable, I believe it would be a good opportunity to have a brief retrospective on how the task went.

Please feel free to add (or comment) however you like. If you want to agree with something that has already been said, please do so. I would be very pleased to get feedback on how to manage the task better, too.

For anonymous feedback, I’m going to suggest that we have a better project-wise retrospective at the end of the year (unless Stephan has already got one planned).

-   <span style="color:blue">Blue comments by John</span>
-   <span style="color:green">Green comments by Sven</span>
-   <span style="color:maroon">Dave - thanks John for a well managed deliverable!</span>
-   <span style="color:darkOrange">Orange comments by Dieter</span>

What went well?
---------------

-   <span style="color:blue">We delivered on time and produced a substantial document</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">We delivered several new ideas and proposals, including things such as:</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">A new permissions framework incorporating privacy controls</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">A new authentication approach</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">An attestation API</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">An authentication API</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">An XACML-driven policy architecture</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">We covered most security and privacy issues, most of the key areas were addressed</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Most of the architectural questions got answered</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>

What didn’t go so well?
-----------------------

-   <span style="color:blue">Specifications weren’t - still high-level and not detailed enough. There are many places where we are distinctly underspecified.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">We didn’t keep it simple. The specifications still require a fairly complex architecture.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">I am not convinced we covered some of the more human issues - usability, etc. User interfaces are crucial to better privacy controls, so perhaps we failed to innovate there.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Lack of prototyping new ideas.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">The open forum and "security/privacy leads" in each work area of 3.1 didn’t really work.</span> — <span style="color:green">At least in the IDM and authN subtask it worked</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">We didn’t assess the APIs or most of 3.1 for security and privacy issues.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">We didn’t manage to specify the following ideas:</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Policy outsourcing and delegation</span> — <span style="color:green">Did we ever intend to do so?</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Digital rights management interfaces</span> — <span style="color:green">Did we ever intend to do so?</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Business use cases: remote deletion, etc</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">inter-personal policies</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Lack of rigour in the process and methodology: no formal threat and risk analysis</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>, <span style="color:maroon">this can and should come as we have a crisper view of the webinos platorm</span>

Why did problems occur?
-----------------------

-   <span style="color:blue">Lack of communication between partners in 3.5, 3.1 and 3.2.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Reading redmine was a difficult way of keeping track with the development of the architecture, many places in which security-relevant decisions were made.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree! There were phases in our work where I spent several days only to grasp what the others did</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Question: did partners not involved in security - FOKUS, DT, Sony Ericsson, Volantis, VisionMobile, NTUA, ISMB, etc - know who to contact, what was important, what needed to be discussed? Should we do something differently to encourage collaboration? Are privacy and security seen as an inconvenience and a potential time-waster? Do we need to be "adding more value"?</span>
    -   <span style="color:green">Experience shows that very often non-security people consider it as time-waster. Probably we should advertise our work and its usefulness more. As soon as people come to us to ask us for our opinion on the stuff they did, we succeeded. But this is a process. It needs time.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">I felt it was difficult to make and commit to decisions about the security architecture.</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">We should have been much faster in coming up with a baseline architecture.</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Partly due to uncertainty in the webinos architecture in general.</span> — <span style="color:green">I believe this is the main reason forw why we have been slow, especially in the beginning.</span>
    -   <span style="color:blue">Partly because we had a number of daunting high-level theoretical challenges without obvious solutions, which meant problems stayed open longer than they should have.</span> — <span style="color:green">Well, yes, but this is just how things start in a big project such as webinos. People have to find their pieces of work and relevant issues have to be separated from irrelevant ones. This requires a common goal. And to form that, it takes also time.</span>
        -   <span style="color:blue">This was, in turn, because we didn’t have useful use cases available. This should have been our starting point.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Timing of the 2.8 work package meant that we couldn’t reuse their results</span>
-   <span style="color:green">Timing of the 3.5 Task: it should have been started some time (e.g. 2 months) after</span> 3.1. How can we create a security architecture without knowing what to secure?%
    -   <span style="color:green">This is the reason why 3.5 was quite quiet in the beginning. We actually did not have the choice.</span>
-   <span style="color:green">We had a tight schedule! There are many things to secure and to solve in webinos and we already addressed most of the security work. However, with the time we had, the early start in parallel to 3.1, and the number of people we had, I believe we were fully kept busy with what we did. Would we have had time for additional things (e.g. a formal threat analysis)? I don’t think so.</span>

What should we change in the future?
------------------------------------

-   <span style="color:blue">Have two-day workshops like the 2.7/2.8 sessions concentrating on specific issues and collecting ideas.</span> <span style="color:green">Oh yes, definitely! This will speed-up the whole thing. When you can meet in front of a whiteboard and spend the time to discuss/solve a particular issue for some hours, it is very likely to succeed. We have proven that in the 2.7/2.8 workshops.</span> <span style="color:maroon">face to face time is also good for coming up with and discussing pertinent use cases.</span> <span style="color:darkOrange">it would be good if one representative of each domain (e.g. auth, context, …) was there to aid in the discussion. I feel the communication between domains started too late now, and this could speed it up.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Greater use of redmine issues for tracking tasks and partner contributions.</span> — <span style="color:green">Maybe. I’m not that sure. I can see the value, but I felt them being a pain. I was fully involved in my technical work and did not want to find the issues relevant for me, hidden somewhere in the huge list of issues. The 3.5 team is small enough to directly agree on how to spread work by talking to another. f2f meetings will also improve on that.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Better isolation of individual work areas and tasks, so that we have fewer meetings and have a better defined scope of activities</span> — <span style="color:green">If possible, yes! But some will be overlapping. IT would help if people were a bit more verbose on what they do and if people were interested in what the others do.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Work in more depth and less breadth: now we have a starting point, chose smaller areas to work on improvements, rather than specifying the whole system at once.</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree, but as stated above, in the beginning, such a big project always starts broad.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Now we have a baseline, spend more time assessing the architecture than developing new features</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree. Now that the architecture is there, we can do.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">More iterative development</span> — <span style="color:green">I agree. This is always efficient because of the feedback we get from implementation. This will bring our feet back on the ground from academic spheres high up in the sky.</span>

What should we keep the same?
-----------------------------

-   <span style="color:blue">The people! I think we worked well together.</span> — <span style="color:green">I think so, too!</span>

What would you like to see developed in the rest of T3.5?
---------------------------------------------------------

Go crazy - feel free to suggest anything you like! I might collect these at the end and then have a voting system to decide which we focus on in the coming year.

-   <span style="color:blue">Spend time working out what we can simplify and remove from the security architecture: possibly remove having both privileged applications and extensions.</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Integration of IF-MAP into the personal zone concept</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Look into Application DRM</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Remote management and remote data deletion controls</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Devices belonging to multiple personal zones</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">High integrity cloud-based PZH using TClouds research</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Better privacy user interfaces based on work from PRiMMA</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Trusted Execution Environments</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Look further into solutions to web-based threats: XSS, CSRF, etc</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Integration with social networks for reputation of applications</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">XHR + Attestation</span>
-   <span style="color:blue">Investigate Identity based Encryption and ECC for more usable OKI</span>
-   <span style="color:green">Develop a sound extra-webinos authentication architecture with SSO. (We anyhow intend to do so, but since this is complex and a crucial and sensitive component of the entire webinos, I believe we should discuss details together to make sure we don’t miss important details. A small group of two to four people should not do that alone.</span>)
-   <span style="color:maroon">Examine what is needed from the platform to enable anonymous logging of applications usage of APIs as a basis for third party assessments of trust and security.</span>
-   <span style="color:maroon">Study opportunities for better usability for trust and privacy by analyzing existing practice, and looking at possible innovations, there is too much to write about this to put it here.</span>

